.TH kuiper-ranger 6 "March 1998 - April 2026" "Kuiper Ranger version 2.6" "Games"
.SH NAME
kuiper-ranger \- Space rocks shooting game using SDL2 cross-platform graphics
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B kuiper-ranger
[\-w \fIWIDTH\fR] [\-fRhv]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
An old-style vector graphics arcade game
in which your space ship
shoots down rocks and flying saucers to gain points.
Opens in a window or takes over the whole
screen and uses monochrome vector graphics.
Allows a one- to three-player game.
.LP
The game and ship control key assignments may be viewed by pressing H (help).
.SH OPTIONS
.sp 1
.TP 0.5i
\fB\-w \fIWIDTH\fR
Open with a specified window width of at least 512 and
at most the screen width.
.TP 0.5i
\fB\-f\fR
Open in full-screen mode where possible.
Alternately, you may press F during the game to toggle full-screen mode.
.TP 0.5i
\fB\-R \fR
Clear out all existing high scores before starting.
.TP 0.5i
\fB\-h\FR
Display a help message and exit.
.TP 0.5i
\fB\-v\FR
Display the program version and exit.
.SH CONTROLS
The '1', '2', or '3' keys start the game for 1, 2, or 3 players.
.LP
The 'Q' or Escape keys exit the level and/or the game.
.LP
The 'S' key toggles the sound on or off.
.LP
The 'F' key toggles full-screen mode on or off.
.LP
The 'Z' and 'X' keys rotate the ship.
.LP
The '.' key thrusts the ship.
.LP
The '/' key fires.
.LP
The Space Bar performs a random jump through hyperspace.
.LP
Press 'H' in the game to see a full description of game controls.
.SH SOUND
Cool sound effects are provided!
They are off by default.
Press 'S' to toggle the sound on and off.
.SH HIGH SCORES
If the file \fB/var/games/kuiper-ranger/scores\fR exists and is
world writable, system-wide high scores will be maintained there.
That file is generally created automatically when the game package
is installed. It can be created manually by running these commands:
.in +4n
.EX
sudo mkdir -p /var/games/kuiper-ranger
sudo touch /var/games/kuiper-ranger/scores
sudo chmod 777 /var/games/kuiper-ranger/scores
.EE
.LP
Otherwise, high scores are stored in a location determined by
the SDL2 library. On Linux, that is often:
.in +4n
\fB$HOME/.local/share/Fishlet/kuiper-ranger/scores\fR
.LP
An alternate location can be specified using an environment
variable (below).
.SH ENVIRONMENT
Set \fBKR_WIDTH\fR to request a window width similar to the
.B \-w
option.
.LP
Set \fBKR_SAMPLES\fR to change the size of the audio sample buffer.
The default is 1024.
A lower value such as 512 provides less latency but potentially more dropouts.
A higher value such as 4096 reduces dropouts but increases latency.
.LP
Set \fBKR_SCORES\fR to specify a specific alternate file in which the high
scores should be maintained. The file must be in a location such
that the game can create it and write to it.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Permission is granted to use this source code for any purpose
provided proper credit is given to the authors.
.SH AUTHOR
.nf
Curt McDowell
Miles Bader
William Lott
Christos Zoulas
Zalman Stern
Liverpool
David Sanderson
and others!
.fi
